I also want to talk about one particular
type of survey that has gained
a lot of recognition,
that's the Net Promoter Score.
What is that?
It actually just boils
down to one question.
How likely is it that you would
recommend a particular brand,
your company, to a friend or colleague?
Just one question.
It's done on a 0 to 10 scale.
Promoters are people who score a 9 or
a 10 on this scale.
Passives are people who score a 7 or a 8.
Detractors are people who score 0 to 6.
And what's the Net Promoter Score
of your company?
That's the percentage of promoters
less the percentage of detractors.
So what does this allow you to do?
This basically allows you to
track the health of your brand.
Do your customers overall like you?
Or are there growing percentage of
people who might become detractors?
Now let's talk a little bit
about a concrete example of
the Net Promoter Score, which is something
that is extremely popular across many,
many different companies.
For example Zappos constantly uses
Net Promoter Scores to see how their
customer services.
There are many other examples of
companies that use Net Promoter Score
to look at how internal people
are doing when they talk to customers.
When you think about Net Promoter Score,
the bigger issue of customer
satisfaction comes to mind.
And the question is how to
measure customer satisfaction.
On the left-hand side of this chart, you
can see there readily available measures,
such as operational measures, complaints
analysis, ratings and reviews, and so on.
On the other extreme right-hand side, you
can have focused efforts such as mystery
shopping, satisfaction surveys, and so on.
It can also have somewhere in the middle,
employee reports.
So, big question is,
how do you measure customer satisfaction?
And it's in this context that
Net Promoter Score came around.
The idea of Net Promoter Score is the
following, it just asks a single question,
which is basically why it's so
important and so useful.
How likely are you to recommend
a service to a colleague or a friend?
So it's on a zero to ten scale.
As you see here,
numbers from 0 to 6 are called detractors.
These are people who are not as
interested in recommending the service.
The numbers on the top two sides,
which are the 9 and 10,
are called people who are promoters.
These are people who would clearly promote
the service to a colleague and a friend.
And the Net Promoter Score for
any particular company,
is the percentage of promoters,
which are the people who circled the 9 or
the 10, less the percentage of detractors,
which are people who circled from 0 to 6.
So if you look at the Net Promoter Score,
it's a great way of looking
at how a company is doing.
Obviously, you'd like positive Net
Promoter Scores, because that basically
says that the number of promoters are much
more than the number of detractors.
If you think about the Net Promoter Score,
they way it came about is from an article
from Frank Reichheld, who was the one
who talked about the Net Promoter Score.
This was published in HBR.
And what these graphs show
is that Net Promoter Score
really well captures what's going on
in overall customer satisfaction.
Now if you think about it, one way of
thinking about customer satisfaction,
which is the criticism
of Net Promoter Score,
is that there is an American Satisfaction
Consumer Index which is out there,
which is readily measurable,
it's been done for many, many years.
So a big criticism of Net Promoter Score,
on the flip side,
is that it's very similar
to the ASCI index.
In fact, for many industries, what's been
also seen, is that the ASCI index has
a higher R square with industry growth,
much larger than the Net Promoter Score.
So there is no clear evidence that
the Net Promoter Score is superior
to other metrics.
What am I doing here?
What I'm showing you again the pros and
the cons.
On the pros side,
the Net Promoter Score is very popular.
Why?
It's a single question.
It's so easy to implement because that's
what you are asking your customers.
On the cons side, you also have to
think about what are you getting at?
If it's about customer satisfaction,
there are other measures that might do
a better job than the Net Promoter Score.
So keep this in mind as you think about
implementing the Net Promoter Score
in your own company.
Here's an example, here in the two panels
what you see here, is the R square,
related to the net growth in the industry,
compared to the ASCI index and
the Net Promoter Score index.
What you see here is for one set of
companies, the R square from the ASCI
index is actually higher than the R
square from the Net Promoter Score.
So again, keep this in mind as you start
implementing a Net Promoter Score if
you're thinking about
it in your own company.
Now, if you think about it, if you think
from a predictability point of view,
is Net Promoter Score
related profitability?
One way of thinking about it, indeed yes.
Net Promoter Score can be related to
customer satisfaction, which in fact has
been shown many times in past work that
it is correlated with profitability.
Overall, literature generally suggests
that higher customer satisfaction
leads to positive outcome for a firm.
What's the problem here?
The link actually might be much weaker
than what managers generally think.
While the correlations are positive,
customer satisfaction
only explains a limited part of
firm value and firm performance.
Now the question might be,
why is that the case?
Intuitively you would think, more
satisfied customers are, they'll be more
happy to do business with that firm, and
hence profitability should be higher.
While that is indeed the case,
it still explains only a limited part.
Why is that?
Well, one way to think about it is, what
would be a way in which satisfaction and
profitability might be linked together?
If you look at this graph,
satisfaction is on the horizontal axis,
profitability is on the vertical axis.
The way managers perceive
the link between satisfaction and
profitability is typically
a straight line.
So what they intuitively think is that if
you keep increasing customer satisfaction,
profitability will always keep rising.
Well, what people have found,
in fact it's much more complicated.
Again, what I've plotted here is on
the horizontal axis, we have satisfaction.
On the vertical axis
we have profitability.
What do we see here?
There is a positive relationship,
but it's not a straight line.
In fact, initially, when you think
about increasing customer satisfaction,
if you're at the lower ends,
you do see an increase in profitability.
But many companies might actually be on
the flat part of the curve, which is,
it's kind of business as usual.
What you see here is that there
is a big flat region where
increasing satisfaction, does not
actually increase profitability as much.
When you cross that particular region,
then you go to the zone of delight.
Much fewer companies,
these are people who have amazing customer
service, these are the standouts.
And for them in their particular category,
you would see again that increasing
satisfaction does increase profitability.
Why do I bring this up?
Because a large number of companies
might be in the flat part.
So, what you might see is,
in your case, in your firm,
increasing satisfaction might not make
a measurable change in profitability.
That doesn't mean that both
of them are not linked,
what it means is they're
not linked linearly.
They might be linked non-linearly.
So again,
you can also find that competition
might impact what this relationship is.
Why do I bring all of this up?
The reason I bring all of this up, in some
sense as a summary, is that whenever you
think about doing any kind of survey,
in this example, we are talking about
the New Promoter Score, there are a couple
of things you want to think about.
The first one is, what is it capturing?
Is it capturing customer satisfaction,
what exactly is it capturing?
How does it compare with other surveys
that could capture the same thing?
That is what we just talked about when
we compared the Net Promoter Score with
the ASCI index.
Does it do better, does it do worse?
How exactly what it's capturing is
different from what other service
could do.
And finally the last part of
it is about predictability.
How does the metric that you're capturing,
in this case, the Net Promoter Score,
link with managerial outcomes
that you're interested in?
Just to summarize,
what we saw in the last few slides was
that you might think that there is
a relationship between satisfaction and
profitability, a positive relationship.
Indeed that is the case, but
it's not typically linear.
There's a large part of the curve
where increasing satisfaction
might not make a measurable
change in profitability.
So again, as you start thinking
about doing your own surveys,
whether it be Net Promoter Score or
other kinds of surveys, keep the following
things in mind, what is it capturing, and
how does it relate to things
that you're interested in?
Be it profitability, stock price,
customer satisfaction, whatever metrics
you are interested in capturing.
Net Promoter Score has found a lot of
leverage in terms of linking the score
to stock prices,
linking the score to future sales, and
as a leading indicator of
how good your brand is.
So surveys are one clear way of reaching
out to your customers in terms
of collecting data from them.
But there are other ways
customers themselves
might be willing to give you some data.
So besides surveys where the company
is reaching out to customers,
many times customers can
reach out to companies by
giving self reports of what they're
buying and when they're buying it.
So InfoScout is one example of
a company that actually attracts or
incentivizes customers
to do the following.
Once they have made their purchases,
they take the receipt,
they have the mobile device, take
a picture of the receipt and send it back.
What does InfoScout do with it?
They basically collect all of this
information across many, many customers,
to get insights into when people
are buying certain products,
where are they buying it, is it at pop
stores, is it in convenience stores,
is it in big box stores?
So, that's one example in which customers
are giving companies that information.
Another example would be
word of mouth dynamics.
So, as a company, we would like to
know what people are purchasing, but
we'd also want to know what
people are talking about.
How is our brand being mentioned?
So, there are many companies out
there that collect this type of data.
As an example, Keller Fay is a company
that collects word of mouth dynamics.
How do they do that?
They have panel of customers which
basically are given the following task,
when you talk to somebody note it down.
Who is it?
Is it a friend?
Is it a colleague?
What did you talk about?
Collecting this data in a diary
format over time, across months,
they are able to observe what
people are talking about,
who are they talking to,
how is a brand being mentioned, and so on.
So word of mouth dynamics is
a powerful way of understanding
how the brand sentiment might be
changing over time, and [INAUDIBLE].
Now, again there are many,
many different ways in which
people can collect this data.
Keller Fay is a company that
does this through a panel data,
through a diary format.
And there are other unobtrusive ways
of collecting this data as well,
which we'll talk about next.
So at this point, we talked about
active ways of data collection.
Next we'll about unobtrusive
passive ways of data collection.